
11/29/22 from Nathan

Hi,

Here's the El Nino piano roll.  If I did things correctly, it takes 3 cycles to return to the starting state.

I think Mike predicted 2 cycles, and I initially predicted 4 cycles.   Funny it ended up being in the middle. 🤣

##

11/30/22 from Nathan

Here's an explanation for how to interpret and construct a piano roll.

The first three rows of the spreadsheet I use for counting total throws, counting total passing beats, and counting passing beats in a "cycle", respectively.  "Cycle" meaning the finite passing pattern, which in the maj pattern book equates to a full table of passes for a pattern.  EG, the standard clover's cycle is 8 passing beats long, and uses a 2 count base resulting in a total of 16 throws to a cycle.

Each juggler has 3 rows to represent the three clubs they're juggling and [0, J-1] rows for each of the other jugglers that represent passes.  The model could be compacted by removing the passing rows, but it's more explicit to include them.  ( In fact, if you compact the model like this it suggests a linear algebra model which I've discussed before, but I digress)

The three initial rows for each juggler are labeled L, S, R, which stand for Left, Self, Right.  The three rows are ordered as if you are viewing the juggler from above as they face East.  

Each column represents a throw, and a throw results in the permutation of the clubs.  A right hand throw swaps the R and S clubs from the previous column, while a left hand throw swaps the L and S clubs.

The "zeroeth" column-- the column just before the first numbered column-- represents every juggler's starting state.  Usually jugglers start with two clubs in one hand, but the model pretends one of them is in the S position.  

The model has these assumptions:
1. A juggler holds a club twice as long as a club in the air for a throw.
2.  A club is in the air for the same amount of time for both self throws and passing throws.
3.  All throws are site swap 3  (any patterns involving higher values will require a more complex model...)
4.  Only one club is in a hand at a time.


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OZHeaFwWl2s

###

12/09/23 from Nathan, based on timing variation of clover from Thursday night:

Call it 1-3-6 on 7 beat 3-leaf clover

Here's the piano roll.  Some observations:
168 throws to get back to starting orientation (colors)
There's 3 fixed positions that feed differently that correspond to each petal
A left handed 2 count feed
18 throws in the petal
2 count, 3 count feed (R, R, L)
19 throws in the petal
3 count, 2 count feed (L, R, R)
19 throws in the petal, mirrors the per
Total throws to go around the full clover is 56 (18+19+19)
So 3 full clovers are required to get the colors back to their starting orientation. (56*3 = 168)

###  10/08/24 from Nathan, on Turbo variants (see Turbo.xlsx)

Hi,

Here's the piano rolls for the standard Turbo, as well as the 135on7 and 146on7 variants.  

Some interesting observations:
- all three take 18 passing beats (one full cycle) to return the colors. 
- in the 146on7 pattern, Nate and Mike only touch 2 of Mel's clubs. 

